README.md, before:

# YT and Chill

YT channel downloader and video library manager. Monitor channels, queue downloads, and manage your local video library.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-ready-brightgreen.svg)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%20%7C%20Linux%20%7C%20Unraid-lightgrey.svg)

## Features

- **Channel Management** - Subscribe to channels, organize with categories, set per-channel duration filters and auto-download
- **Smart Queue** - Drag-and-drop reordering, pause/resume, real-time progress with speed and ETA
- **Video Library** - Search, filter, sort, bulk actions, watched status tracking with resume playback
- **Playlists** - Create custom playlists, organize with categories, shuffle play
- **Video Player** - Playback speed controls, picture-in-picture, keyboard shortcuts, video preview on hover
- **Auto-Scan Scheduler** - Set daily scan times to check for new uploads
- **10 Themes** - Kernel, Fatal, Subnet, Archive, Buffer, Gateway, Catppuccin, Online, Pixel, Debug
- **Mobile Support** - Touch-optimized interface with gesture controls
- **Cookie Auth** - cookies.txt or Firefox browser integration for authenticated downloads

## Screenshots

### Channels View
![Channels](images/Channels.png)

### Library View
![Library](images/library.png)

### Playlist View
![Playlist](images/playlist.png)

### Video Player
![Video Player](images/video.png)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Node.js 18+
- ffmpeg (recommended)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/thenunner/ytandchill.git
cd ytandchill
```

**Windows:**
```cmd
windows-start.bat
```
Select option 3 (Setup) on first run, then option 1 (Start) to launch.

**Linux / macOS:**
```bash
chmod +x setup-native-linux.sh start-native-linux.sh
./setup-native-linux.sh
./start-native-linux.sh
```

**Unraid/Docker:**
See [UNRAID-SETUP.md](UNRAID-SETUP.md)

Access at http://localhost:4099

## Configuration

### YouTube Cookies (Recommended)

Required for reliable downloads due to YouTube's bot detection.

**Option 1: cookies.txt**
1. Install browser extension ("Get cookies.txt LOCALLY" for Chrome, "cookies.txt" for Firefox)
2. Export cookies from youtube.com while logged in
3. Save as `backend/cookies.txt`
4. Select "cookies.txt" in Settings → Cookie Source

**Option 2: Firefox Integration (Docker only)**
1. Mount Firefox profile to `/firefox_profile:ro`
2. Select "Firefox" in Settings → Cookie Source

## Importing Existing Videos

Have existing YouTube videos? Import them into your library:

1. Place video files in `downloads/imports/`
2. (Optional) Add a `channels.txt` file with channel URLs to improve matching
3. Go to Import page in the app
4. Click "Smart Import" (Auto or Manual mode)

Videos are identified automatically by:
- **Filename = Video ID** (e.g., `dQw4w9WgXcQ.mp4`) → instant match
- **Filename = Title** (e.g., `My Video Title.mp4`) → YouTube search + duration match

**Supported channel file formats:** `channels.txt`, `channels.csv`, `channels.list`, `urls.txt`, `urls.csv` (one URL per line)

## Directory Structure

```
ytandchill/
├── data/           # Database
├── downloads/      # Videos and thumbnails
│   └── imports/    # Drop files here for import
├── logs/           # Application logs
└── backend/
    └── cookies.txt # YouTube cookies (optional)
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Downloads failing**: Update yt-dlp (`pip install --upgrade yt-dlp`), check cookies
- **Port in use**: Set `PORT` environment variable
- **Docker issues**: Check logs with `docker logs ytandchill`

See [FAQ.md](FAQ.md) for more help.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: React + Vite + Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Python + Flask + SQLite
- **Downloader**: yt-dlp + ffmpeg

## License

MIT License

## Credits

- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)
- [Dashboard Icons](https://github.com/walkxcode/dashboard-icons)

Commit message:

Update README with drag-and-drop import instructions

README.md, after:

# YT and Chill

YT channel downloader and video library manager. Monitor channels, queue downloads, and manage your local video library.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-ready-brightgreen.svg)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%20%7C%20Linux%20%7C%20Unraid-lightgrey.svg)

## Features

- **Channel Management** - Subscribe to channels, organize with categories, set per-channel duration filters and auto-download
- **Smart Queue** - Drag-and-drop reordering, pause/resume, real-time progress with speed and ETA
- **Video Library** - Search, filter, sort, bulk actions, watched status tracking with resume playback
- **Playlists** - Create custom playlists, organize with categories, shuffle play
- **Video Player** - Playback speed controls, picture-in-picture, keyboard shortcuts, video preview on hover
- **Auto-Scan Scheduler** - Set daily scan times to check for new uploads
- **10 Themes** - Kernel, Fatal, Subnet, Archive, Buffer, Gateway, Catppuccin, Online, Pixel, Debug
- **Mobile Support** - Touch-optimized interface with gesture controls
- **Cookie Auth** - cookies.txt or Firefox browser integration for authenticated downloads

## Screenshots

### Channels View
![Channels](images/Channels.png)

### Library View
![Library](images/library.png)

### Playlist View
![Playlist](images/playlist.png)

### Video Player
![Video Player](images/video.png)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Node.js 18+
- ffmpeg (recommended)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/thenunner/ytandchill.git
cd ytandchill
```

**Windows:**
```cmd
windows-start.bat
```
Select option 3 (Setup) on first run, then option 1 (Start) to launch.

**Linux / macOS:**
```bash
chmod +x setup-native-linux.sh start-native-linux.sh
./setup-native-linux.sh
./start-native-linux.sh
```

**Unraid/Docker:**
See [UNRAID-SETUP.md](UNRAID-SETUP.md)

Access at http://localhost:4099

## Configuration

### YouTube Cookies (Recommended)

Required for reliable downloads due to YouTube's bot detection.

**Option 1: cookies.txt**
1. Install browser extension ("Get cookies.txt LOCALLY" for Chrome, "cookies.txt" for Firefox)
2. Export cookies from youtube.com while logged in
3. Save as `backend/cookies.txt`
4. Select "cookies.txt" in Settings → Cookie Source

**Option 2: Firefox Integration (Docker only)**
1. Mount Firefox profile to `/firefox_profile:ro`
2. Select "Firefox" in Settings → Cookie Source

## Importing Existing Videos

Have existing YouTube videos? Import them into your library:

**Option 1: Drag and Drop**
1. Go to Import page in the app
2. Drag video files directly onto the page (supports files up to 50GB)
3. Files upload to the imports folder automatically
4. Click "Smart Import" to identify and add to library

**Option 2: Direct Folder Access**
1. Place video files in `downloads/imports/`
2. Go to Import page in the app
3. Click "Smart Import" (Auto or Manual mode)

**Tips:**
- Add a `channels.txt` file with channel URLs to improve matching accuracy
- Supported channel file formats: `channels.txt`, `channels.csv`, `channels.list`, `urls.txt`, `urls.csv` (one URL per line)

Videos are identified automatically by:
- **Filename = Video ID** (e.g., `dQw4w9WgXcQ.mp4`) → instant match
- **Filename = Title** (e.g., `My Video Title.mp4`) → YouTube search + duration match

## Directory Structure

```
ytandchill/
├── data/           # Database
├── downloads/      # Videos and thumbnails
│   └── imports/    # Drop files here for import
├── logs/           # Application logs
└── backend/
    └── cookies.txt # YouTube cookies (optional)
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Downloads failing**: Update yt-dlp (`pip install --upgrade yt-dlp`), check cookies
- **Port in use**: Set `PORT` environment variable
- **Docker issues**: Check logs with `docker logs ytandchill`

See [FAQ.md](FAQ.md) for more help.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: React + Vite + Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Python + Flask + SQLite
- **Downloader**: yt-dlp + ffmpeg

## License

MIT License

## Credits

- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)
- [Dashboard Icons](https://github.com/walkxcode/dashboard-icons)
